MEMBERS.TXT                 11/27/91

The Members database keeps track of membership for organizations. 
It records general member information, meetings attended,
contributions, and family relationships.  The database is
designed for use with DataPerfect 2.2.

The Members database is useful for churches, community groups,
volunteer associations, and other organizations that need to
organize and list information about people.

You may copy and modify the databases for your own or your
company's use.  You may not copy or modify the databases and
resell them.  Please be aware that while WordPerfect Corporation
provides support on DataPerfect questions, only limited support
is available for these predefined databases.  No support is
available for the databases if they have been modified.

PANELS
You will enter information in all panels except the Contribution
Summary panel, which displays contribution totals for each
member.  

As you tab through each field, a help message at the top of the
screen explains what to do while in that field.  Press Help (F3)
twice for further information about the field.

      MEMBERSHIP
      The Membership panel is the main panel.  This is where you
      enter general information about each member, such as name,
      address, phone number, birth date, comments, and spouse's
      name.  This panel has links to the Contributions and
      Contribution Summary panels.

      ATTENDANCE RECORD 
      The Attendance Record panel records events attended by each
      member.  The panel has fields for date, event, and name.

      FAMILY GROUPS 
      The Family Groups panel allows you to establish family
      relationships between members.  You enter the father's and
      mother's names in the appropriate fields to establish the
      parental relationship.  From this panel, you also access the
      Children panel, where you create a record for each child. 
      When there are children's records in the Children panel,
      those names are displayed in the Family Groups panel.

      CHILDREN 
      The Children panel relates children to a parent or parents. 
      When you need to enter information in this panel, you should
      access it from the Family Groups panel.

      CONTRIBUTIONS 
      The Contributions panel records contributions for each
      member.  For every contribution, the date, amount, and
      category are recorded. 

      CONTRIBUTION SUMMARY 
      The Contribution Summary panel displays the total
      contribution for each member.  The individual contributions
      for each member are also listed.  This is the only panel
      where you are not required to enter any information; the
      totals are created for you through links.

      EVENT NAMES
      The Event Names panel records all possible event names to be
      used in the Attendance Record panel.  When entering records
      in that panel, you may look up all events in the Event Names
      panel and select the desired event.

      CONTRIBUTION CATEGORY NAMES 
      The Contribution Category Names panel records all possible
      contribution categories to be used in the Contributions
      panel.  When entering records in that panel, you may list
      all categories in the Contribution Category name panel and
      select the desired category.

REPORTS
Members provides four custom reports in addition to Built-In
Short Reports.  These custom reports print information about
members, attendance, and families.  Using DPPrint when running
reports is recommended.  For more information about DPPrint, see
Appendix M: Utilities--DPPrint in DataPerfect Reference.

      ATTENDANCE REPORT 
      This report prints the names of members who attended a
      certain event.  As the report begins, you are prompted to
      enter the event, starting date, and ending date to search
      for.  You are also asked to enter the number of event
      periods.  This is the number of times that particular event
      was held, and is used to calculate the attendance percentage
      for each member.

      LIST OF MEMBERS 
      This report will print a list of all people entered in the
      database, or a list of members only, depending on what
      information you enter in answer to the prompt given as the
      report begins.

      BIRTHDAY LIST 
      This report prompts you for the month to search.  It then
      lists the name and birth date for each member who has a
      birthday in that month.

      FAMILY GROUPS REPORT 
      This report lists the father, mother, and children for each
      family in the database.

USING THE DATABASE
To use the database, the first thing to do is set up the events
and contribution categories you will need.

In the Event Names panel, press Create (F9) to create a new
record and enter the event name (for example, Sunday School). 
Continue creating records until you've established the events
you'll need.  If you need to add another event later, you may do
so by following the same process.  When finished, press Exit (F7)
to leave the Event Names panel and return to the panel list.

In the Contribution Category Name panel, press Create (F9) to
create a record.  Enter the contribution category (for example,
Dues).  Continue creating records until you've established the
contribution categories you'll need.  If you need to add other
categories later, you may so by following the same process. 
Press Exit (F7) to leave the Contribution Category Names panel
and return to the panel list.

Now that you have your events and contribution categories set up,
you are ready to enter information in the database, beginning
with the Membership panel.  In the Membership panel, press Create
(F9) to create a record.  Enter the general information about the
member, pressing Tab to move from field to field.  After you have
entered information in all of the fields, you should be on the
Contributions panel link.  

Press Down Panel (F5) to go through the link into the
Contributions panel.  The name and date will be filled in for
you; however, you can replace the date if you wish.  Enter the
amount of the contribution as well as the contribution category. 
If you don't remember which contribution category to use, press
Lookup (F8) or Up Arrow to see the list of categories.  Highlight
the desired category and press Enter, and the category will be
inserted in the field.  If you have more contributions for this
member, continue creating records until you've entered them all. 
If you need to add other contributions later, you may do so by
following the same process.  When finished, press Exit (F7) to
return to the Membership panel.

With your cursor on the Summary link, press Down Arrow to move to
the Contribution Summary panel.  That particular member's summary
will be shown, displaying the total contribution as well as
listing each individual contribution.  When finished, press Exit
(F7) twice to return to the panel list. 

The next panel to enter information in is the Attendance Record
panel.  In that panel, press Create (F9) to create a record. 
Enter the date of the event, then enter the event name.  If you
don't know which event to enter, press Lookup (F8) or Up Arrow to
see a list of events.  Highlight the desired event and press
Enter, and the event name will be inserted for you.  Enter the
member's name in the same way you entered the event name.  If you
have more attendance records for this member, continue creating
records until they've all been entered.  If you need to add other
records later, you may do so by following the same process. 
Press Exit (F7) to return to the panel list.

The next panel to enter information in is the Family Groups
panel.  While in that panel, press Create (F9) to create a record
and enter the father's name.  If you don't remember the father's
name, press Lookup (F8) or Up Arrow while you are on the first
name field to see a list of members.  Highlight the correct name
and press Enter, and the name will be inserted in the field.  If
you do not have the father's name, leave the field empty.  Enter
the information in the mother's name field in the same way.  

Move to the Children panel link, and press Down Panel (F5) to
move to the Children panel.  Enter the name of the first child
for this family in the same way you entered the names for father
and mother.  If you have more children for this family, continue
creating records until they've all been entered.  If necessary,
additional names may be added at another time.  Once you have
entered all of the children for this family, press Exit (F7)
twice to return to the panel list.

FIELDS
The following tables outline the type and format of the displayed
fields in each panel.  Hidden fields are not listed.  For more
information, see Field Format in DataPerfect Reference.

      MEMBERSHIP

      FIELD                TYPE            FORMAT
      First Name           Alphanumeric    A15
      Middle Name          Alphanumeric    A15
      Last Name            Alphanumeric    A20
      Address              Text            A32A2
      City                 Alphanumeric    A15
      State                Alphanumeric    U2
      Zip                  Numeric         N99999-9999;;B
      Comments             Text            A22A3
      Birthday             Date            D99/99/9999
      Home Area Code       Numeric         N(999)
      Home Telephone       Numeric         N999-9999
      Work Area Code       Numeric         N(999)
      Work Telephone       Numeric         N999-9999
      Member               Alphanumeric    U1
      Spouse First Name    Alphanumeric    A15
      Spouse Middle Name   Alphanumeric    A15
      Spouse Last Name     Alphanumeric    A20

      ATTENDANCE RECORD

      FIELD                TYPE            FORMAT
      Date                 Date            D99/99/9999
      Event                Alphanumeric    A20
      First Name           Alphanumeric    A15
      Middle Name          Alphanumeric    A15
      Last Name            Alphanumeric    A20

      FAMILY GROUPS

      FIELD                TYPE            FORMAT
      Father First Name    Alphanumeric    A15
      Father Middle Name   Alphanumeric    A15
      Father Last Name     Alphanumeric    A20
      Mother First Name    Alphanumeric    A15
      Mother Middle Name   Alphanumeric    A15
      Mother Last Name     Alphanumeric    A20

      CONTRIBUTIONS

      FIELD                TYPE            FORMAT
      Name                 Alphanumeric    A35::N
      Date                 Date            D99/99/9999
      Amount               Numeric         G-$ZZZ,ZZ9.99
      Category             Alphanumeric    A20

      CHILDREN

      FIELD                TYPE            FORMAT
      First Name           Alphanumeric    A15
      Middle Name          Alphanumeric    A15::N
      Last Name            Alphanumeric    A20::N

      CONTRIBUTION SUMMARY

      FIELD                TYPE            FORMAT
      Name                 Alphanumeric    A35::N
      Total Contributions 
      to Date              Numeric         G-$ZZZ,ZZZ.Z9

      EVENT NAMES

      FIELD                TYPE            FORMAT
      Event                Alphanumeric    A20

      CONTRIBUTION CATEGORY NAMES

      FIELD                TYPE            FORMAT
      Contribution 
      Category             Alphanumeric    A20

LINKS
The main links in this database are panel links which take you
from the Membership panel to the Contributions and Contribution
Summary panels, along with a panel link from the Family Groups to
the Children panel.  The data links are used to view and retrieve
information from other panels.

      *    Panel link from Membership to Contributions.
      *    Panel link from Membership to Contribution Summary.
      *    Data link from Event field of Attendance Record to
           Event Names panel.
      *    Data link from First Name field of Attendance Record to
           Membership panel.
      *    Data link from Father First Name field of Family Groups
           to Membership panel.
      *    Data link from Mother First Name field of Family Groups
           to Membership panel.
      *    Panel link from Family Groups to Children.
      *    Data link from Category field of Contributions to
           Contribution Category Names panel.
      *    Data link from First Name field of Children to
           Membership panel.

FORMULAS AND KEEP-A-TOTALS
The Members database contains many formulas, as well as one keep-
a-total.

      MEMBERSHIP
      The Spouse Last Name field formula places the last name of
      the member if anything is entered in the Spouse First Name
      field.  Otherwise, it leaves whatever last name was entered
      in the Spouse Last Name field.

      ATTENDANCE RECORD 
      The Date field formula places the current date in the field
      when a record is created.  The date can be overwritten.

      The Name field formula concatenates the first, middle, and
      last names of that member from the Membership panel.

      FAMILY GROUPS
      The Mother and Father Middle Name field formulas pull the
      middle name from the Membership panel.

      The Mother and Father Last Name field formulas pull the last
      name from the Membership panel.

      CONTRIBUTIONS
      The Date field formula places the current date in the field
      when a record is created.  The date can be overwritten.

      The Amount field has a Keep-A-Total which totals the amount
      entered to the Total Contributions to Date in the
      Contribution Summary panel.

      The Name field formula concatenates the first, middle, and
      last names of that member from the Membership panel.